ENGL 101 Writing from Sources I (5)
Includes academic reading and graphics from different genres to provide opportunities for noticing lexis and grammar of the genre and specific topic. Students discuss the topic, receiving feedback on their use of structures and lexis, and write short responses to the type of questions that might be asked on exams related to the readings. Focuses on sentence-level issues related to sentence structure and lexis. Limited to student admitted to UW with an English language requirement. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 101

ENGL 102 Writing from Sources II (5)
Focuses on reading and analysis of academic texts, such as those found in textbooks, newspaper articles, journal articles, and research reports, used for writing in various rhetorical styles at the paragraph level. Second in the three-course AEP writing sequence. Prerequisite: either ENGL 101 or placement by test score.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 102

ENGL 103 Writing from Sources III (5)
Introduces and practices reading, writing, and critical thinking strategies students need to develop researched, organized, and correctly documented papers using academic sources. Introduces library research skills for finding a variety of sources. Third in the three-course AEP writing sequence. Prerequisite: either ENGL 102 or placement by test score. Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 103

ENGL 104 Academic Listening and Speaking (5)
Aims to improve students' ability to participate in university course lectures and class discussions. Students respond to lectures, participate in and lead class discussions, and deliver short oral reports. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 104

ENGL 105 English for International Teaching Assistants (5)
Develops language production skills, lesson planning and presentation skills, and TA-student interaction skills related to classroom teaching for international teaching assisants. Requires speak exam.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 105

ENGL 108 Writing Ready: Preparing for College Writing (5)
Builds writing confidence through frequent informal writing, and introductions to key learning strategies. Includes user-friendly orientation to library and research documents, revision skills, and peer review work central to 100- and 200-level college writing assignments. Offered: A.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 108

ENGL 109 Introductory Composition (5-)
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 109

ENGL 110 Introductory Composition (-5) C
Development of writing skills: sentence strategies and paragraph structures. Expository, critical, and persuasive essay techniques based on analysis of selected readings. For Educational Opportunity Program students only, upon recommendation by the Office of Minority Affairs.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 110

ENGL 111 Composition: Literature (5) C
Study and practice of good writing; topics derived from reading and discussing stories, poems, essays, and plays. Cannot be taken if student has already received a grade of 2.0 or higher in either ENGL 111, ENGL 121, or ENGL 131.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 111

ENGL 115 Writing Studio (2)
Supports multilingual students concurrently enrolled in a composition course. Builds academic reading skills in order to analyze complex texts, review, and analyze grammar structures to produce different writing effects. Also assists students to develop critical reflective skills to become better familiarized with the writing and revision process. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 115

ENGL 121 Composition: Social Issues (5) C
Focuses on the study and practice of good writing: topics derived from a variety of personal, academic, and public subjects. Includes a service-learning component allowing students to engage with and write about social issues in applied ways.. Cannot be taken if student has already received a grade of 2.0 or higher in either ENGL 111, ENGL 121, or ENGL 131.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 121

ENGL 131 Composition: Exposition (5) C
Study and practice of good writing: topics derived from a variety of personal, academic, and public subjects. Cannot be taken if student has already received a grade of 2.0 or higher in either ENGL 111, ENGL 121, or ENGL 131.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 131

ENGL 182 The Research Paper (5) C
Includes study of library resources, the analysis of reading materials, and writing preparatory papers as basic to writing a reference or research paper. Open to all undergraduates. Prerequisite: either ENGL 111, ENGL 121, or ENGL 131.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 182

ENGL 195 STUDY ABROAD (1-5, max. 15)
Equivalency for 100-level English courses taken on UW study abroad programs or direct exchanges. General elective credit only; may not apply to major requirements.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 195

ENGL 197 Interdisciplinary Writing/Humanities (5, max. 15) C
Expository writing based on material presented in a specified humanities lecture course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 197

ENGL 198 Interdisciplinary Writing/Social Science (5, max. 15) C
Expository writing based on material presented in a specified social science lecture course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytic prose. Concurrent registration in specified course required.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 198

ENGL 199 Interdisciplinary Writing/Natural Science (5, max. 15) C
Expository writing based on material presented in a specific natural science lecture course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 199

ENGL 200 Reading Literary Forms (5) VLPA
Covers techniques and practice in reading and enjoying literature in its various forms: poetry, drama, prose fiction, and film. Examines such features of literary meanings as imagery, characterization, narration, and patterning in sound and sense. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 200

ENGL 202 Introduction to the Study of English Language and Literature (5) VLPA
Gateway course designed for English pre-majors and majors. Introduces critical, historical, and theoretical frameworks important to studying the literature, language, and cultures of English. Concurrent registration with ENGL 297 required. Cannot be taken for credit if student has taken ENGL 301.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 202

ENGL 204 Popular Fiction and Media (5) VLPA
Introduces students to the study of popular culture, possibly including print or visual media, understood as sites of critical reflection. Particular attention to dynamics of production and reception, aesthetics and technique, and cultural politics. Topics may foreground genres (science fiction; romance) or forms (comics; graffiti).
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 204

ENGL 205 Method, Imagination, and Inquiry (5) VLPA
Examines ideas of method and imagination in a variety of texts, in literature, philosophy, and science. Particularly concerned with intellectual backgrounds and methods of inquiry that have shaped modern Western literature. Offered: jointly with CHID 205.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 205

ENGL 206 Rhetoric in Everyday Life (5) VLPA
Introductory rhetoric course that examines the strategic use of and situated means through which images, texts, objects, and symbols inform, persuade, and shape social practices in various contexts. Topics focus on education, public policy, politics, law, journalism, media, digital cultural, globalization, popular culture, and the arts.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 206

ENGL 207 Introduction to Cultural Studies (5) VLPA/I&S
Introduces cultural studies as an interdisciplinary field and practice. Explores multiple histories of the field with an emphasis on current issues and developments. Focuses on culture as a site of political and social debate and struggle. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 207

ENGL 210 Medieval and Early Modern Literature, 400 to 1600 (5) VLPA
Introduces literature from the Middle Ages and the Age of Shakespeare, focusing on major works that have shaped the development of literary and intellectual traditions of these periods. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 210

ENGL 211 Literature, 1500-1800 (5) VLPA Coldewey, Remley, Shields, Streitberger
Introduces literature from the Age of Shakespeare to the American and French Revolutions, focusing on major works that have shaped the development of literary and intellectual traditions in these centuries. Topics include: The Renaissance, religious and political reforms, exploration and colonialism, vernacular cultures, and scientific thought. Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 211

ENGL 212 Literature, 1700-1900 (5) VLPA
Introduces eighteenth- and nineteenth-century literature, focusing on representative works that illustrate literary and intellectual developments of the period. Topics include: exploration, empire, colonialism, slavery, revolution, and nation-building. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 212

ENGL 213 Modern and Postmodern Literature (5) VLPA
Introduces twentieth-century literature and contemporary literature, focusing on representative works that illustrate literary and intellectual developments since 1900.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 213

ENGL 225 Shakespeare (5) VLPA
Introduces Shakespeare's career as dramatist, with study of representative comedies, tragedies, romances, and history plays.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 225

ENGL 242 Reading Prose Fiction (5) VLPA
Critical interpretation and meaning in works of prose fiction, representing a variety of types and periods.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 242

ENGL 243 Reading Poetry (5) VLPA
Critical interpretation and meaning in poems, representing a variety of types and periods.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 243

ENGL 244 Reading Drama (5) VLPA
Critical interpretation and meaning in plays, representing a variety of types and periods.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 244

ENGL 250 American Literature (5) VLPA
Introduces American culture through a careful reading of a variety of representative texts in their historical contexts.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 250

ENGL 251 Literature and American Political Culture (5) VLPA/I&S
Introduction to the methods and theories used in the analysis of American culture. Emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach to American literature, including history, politics, anthropology, and mass media. Offered: jointly with POL S 281.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 251

ENGL 257 Asian-American Literature (5) VLPA
Introductory survey of Asian-American literature provides introduction to Chinese, Japanese, Filipino, Korean, Hawaiian, South-Asian, and Southeast-Asian American literatures and a comparative study of the basic cultural histories of those Asian-American communities from the 1800s to the present.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 257

ENGL 258 Survey of Afro-American Literature (5) VLPA, DIV Butler
A chronological survey of Afro-American literature in all genres from its beginnings to the present day. Emphasizes Afro-American writing as a literary art; the cultural and historical context of Afro-American literary expression and the aesthetic criteria of Afro-American literature. Offered: jointly with AFRAM 214.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 258

ENGL 265 Introduction to Environmental Humanities (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV
Introduces the study of the environment through literature, culture, and history. Topics include changing ideas about nature, wilderness, ecology, pollution, climate, and human/animal relations, with particular emphasis on environmental justice and the unequal distribution of environmental crises, both globally and along class, race and gender lines.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 265

ENGL 266 Introduction to Textual and Digital Studies (5) VLPA
Provides an introduction to manuscript, print, and digital media cultures with a focus on the production and dissemination of literature in English. Topics include the history of the book, reading and reception, orality and literacy, editing and publishing, early computing, and the future of literary writing in a digital era. Offered: jointly with C LIT 266.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 266

ENGL 270 The Uses of the English Language (5) VLPA
Surveys the assumptions, methodologies, and major issues of English in its cultural settings. Connects English language study with the study of literature, orality and literacy, education, ethnicity, gender, and public policy.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 270

ENGL 277 Introduction to Children's and Young Adult Literature (5) VLPA
Introduction to creative works written for children and young adults, with emphasis on historical, cultural, institutional, and industrial contexts of production and reception. Also examines changing assumptions about the social and educational function of children's and young adult literature.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 277

ENGL 281 Intermediate Expository Writing (5) C
Writing papers communicating information and opinion to develop accurate, competent, and effective expression.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 281

ENGL 282 Composing for the Web (5) VLPA
Introduces the writing of nonfiction narrative and expository pieces for publication on the web. Analysis and criticism of on-line work.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 282

ENGL 283 Beginning Verse Writing (5) VLPA
Intensive study of the ways and means of making a poem.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 283

ENGL 284 Beginning Short Story Writing (5) VLPA
Introduction to the theory and practice of writing the short story.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 284

ENGL 285 Writers on Writing (5) VLPA Bosworth, Kenney, Shields, Sonenberg
Experiencing literature from the inside. Members of the creative writing faculty and other practicing writers discuss their poetry, fiction, and literary nonfiction, literary inspiration, artistic practice, and the writer's life.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 285

ENGL 295 Study Abroad (1-5, max. 30) VLPA
Equivalency for 200-level English courses taken on UW study abroad programs or direct exchanges. May not apply to major requirements.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 295

ENGL 297 Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Humanities (5, max. 15) C
Expository writing based on materials presented in a specified humanities course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required. Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 297

ENGL 298 Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Social Sciences (5, max. 15) C
Expository writing based on materials presented in a specified social science course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required. Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 298

ENGL 299 Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Natural Sciences (5, max. 15) C
Expository writing based on materials presented in a specified natural science course. Assignments include drafts of papers to be submitted in the specified course, and other pieces of analytical prose. Concurrent registration in the specified course required. Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 299

ENGL 300 Reading Major Texts (5) VLPA
Intensive examination of one or a few major works of literature. Classroom work to develop skills of careful and critical reading. Book selection varies, but reading consists of major works by important authors and of selected supplementary materials.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 300

ENGL 301 Introduction to the Study of English Language and Literature (5) VLPA
Gateway course designed for English pre-majors and majors. Introduces critical, historical, and theoretical frameworks important to studying the literature, language, and cultures of English. Concurrent registration with ENGL 297 required. Cannot be taken for credit if student has taken ENGL 202.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 301

ENGL 302 Critical Practice (5) VLPA
Intensive study of, and exercise in, applying important or influential interpretive practices for studying language, literature, and culture, along with consideration of their powers/limits. Focuses on developing critical writing abilities. Topics vary and may include critical and interpretive practice from scripture and myth to more contemporary approaches, including newer interdisciplinary practices. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in ENGL 197 or ENGL 297; a minimum grade of 2.0 in ENGL 202 or ENGL 301; may not be repeated if received a grade of 2.0 or higher.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 302

ENGL 303 History of Literary Criticism and Theory I (5) VLPA
Literary criticism and theory from its beginnings in Plato through the early twentieth century. Philosophical and theoretical grounds for critical practice put forward by philosophers and critics.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 303

ENGL 304 History of Literary Criticism and Theory II (5) VLPA
Contemporary criticism and theory and its background in the New Criticism, structuralism, and phenomenology.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 304

ENGL 305 Theories of Imagination (5) VLPA/I&S
Survey of theories of imagination since the seventeenth century. Focuses on the uses of the concept in literature, criticism, science, and society.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 305

ENGL 306 Introduction to Rhetoric (5) VLPA
Introduces rhetorical theory from the classical period to the present, including an overview of core issues, vocabulary, and concepts in rhetorical theory; a discussion of methods for studying rhetoric, and a consideration of the social importance of studying rhetoric in the contemporary moment.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 306

ENGL 307 Cultural Studies (5) VLPA
Overview of cultural studies with a focus on reading texts or objects using cultural studies methods and writing analytic essays using cultural studies methods. Focuses on culture as a site of political and social debate and struggle.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 307

ENGL 308 Marxism and Literary Theory (5) VLPA
Introduces Marxist theory and methodology. Explores how and why Marx's writings, Marxist theory, and materialist methods became central to the study of literature and culture over the course of the twentieth century.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 308

ENGL 309 Theories of Reading (5) VLPA
Investigates what it means to be a reader. Centers on authorial and reading challenges, shifting cultural and theoretical norms, and changes in the public's reading standards.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 309

ENGL 310 The Bible as Literature (5) VLPA
Introduction to the development of the religious ideas and institutions of ancient Israel, with selected readings from the Old Testament and New Testament. Emphasis on reading The Bible with literary and historical understanding.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 310

ENGL 311 Modern Jewish Literature in Translation (5) VLPA
Survey of Jewish experience and its literary expression since 1880. Includes such Yiddish writers as Sholom Aleichem, Peretz, and I. B. Singer; such Israeli writers as Agnon, Hazaz, and Appelfeld; and such writers in non-Jewish languages as Primo Levi and Kafka.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 311

ENGL 312 Jewish Literature: Biblical to Modern (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV
A study of Jewish literature from Biblical narrative and rabbinic commentary to modern prose and poetry with intervening texts primarily organized around major themes: martyrdom and suffering, destruction and exile, messianism, Hasidism and Enlightenment, Yiddishism and Zionism. Various critical approaches; geographic and historic contexts. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 312.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 312

ENGL 313 Modern European Literature in Translation (5) VLPA
Fiction, poetry, and drama from the development of modernism to the present. Works by such writers as Mann, Proust, Kafka, Gide, Hesse, Rilke, Brecht, Sartre, and Camus.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 313

ENGL 314 Transatlantic Literature and Culture (5) VLPA
Explores literatures and cultures produced in the Atlantic world. Emphasizes historical lines of communication and exchange among Atlantic cultures and their literature.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 314

ENGL 315 Literary Modernism (5) VLPA
Various modern authors, from Wordsworth to the present, in relation to such major thinkers as Kant, Hegel, Darwin, Marx, Nietzsche, Bergson, and Wittgenstein, who have helped create the context and the content of modern literature.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 315

ENGL 316 Postcolonial Literature and Culture (5, max. 10) VLPA, DIV
Readings of major texts and writers in postcolonial literature and culture. Surveys some of the most important questions and debates in postcolonial literature, including issues of identity, globalization, language, and nationalism. Cultural focus may vary; see professor for specific details.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 316

ENGL 317 Literature of the Americas (5) VLPA, DIV
Examines writings by and about people of the Americas, with a focus on intersections of gender, colonialism, race, sexuality, and ethnicity.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 317

ENGL 318 Black Literary Genres (5) VLPA Ibrahim, Retman
Considers how generic forms have been discussed, distributed, and valued in the larger context of African American, or other African-Diasporic literary studies. Explores how black writers and artists treat the terms and conventions of generic forms in response, and comparison, to their cultural treatment of others. Offered: jointly with AFRAM 318; AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 318

ENGL 319 African Literatures (5) VLPA, DIV Chrisman
Introduces and explores African literatures from a range of regions. Pays particular attention to writings connected with the historical experiences of colonialism, anti-colonial resistance, and decolonization. Considers the operations of race, gender, nationhood, neocolonialism, and globalization within and across these writings. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 319

ENGL 320 English Literature: The Middle Ages (5) VLPA
Literary culture of Middle Ages in England, as seen in selected works from earlier and later periods, ages of Beowulf and of Geoffrey Chaucer. Read in translation, except for a few later works, which are read in Middle English.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 320

ENGL 321 Chaucer (5) VLPA
Chaucer's Canterbury Tales and other poetry, with attention to Chaucer's social, historical, and intellectual milieu.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 321

ENGL 322 English Literature: The Elizabethan Age (5) VLPA
The golden age of English poetry, with poems by Shakespeare, Spenser, Sidney, and others; drama by Marlowe and other early rivals to Shakespeare; prose by Sir Thomas More and the great Elizabethan translators.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 322

ENGL 323 Shakespeare to 1603 (5) VLPA
Shakespeare's career as dramatist before 1603 (including Hamlet). Study of history plays, comedies, and tragedies.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 323

ENGL 324 Shakespeare After 1603 (5) VLPA
Shakespeare's career as dramatist after 1603. Study of comedies, tragedies, and romances.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 324

ENGL 325 English Literature: The Late Renaissance (5) VLPA
A period of skepticism for some, faith for others, but intellectual upheaval generally. Poems by John Donne and the "metaphysical" school; poems and plays by Ben Jonson and other late rivals to Shakespeare; prose by Sir Francis Bacon and other writers.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 325

ENGL 326 Milton (5) VLPA
Milton's early poems and the prose; Paradise Lost, Paradise Regained, and Samson Agonistes, with attention to the religious, intellectual, and literary contexts.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 326

ENGL 327 English Literature: Restoration and Early Eighteenth Century (5) VLPA
Selections from wits and satirists; poems by John Dryden and Alexander Pope; plays by Dryden, William Congreve, and other wits; the great satires of Jonathan Swift, and the first stirring of the novel.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 327

ENGL 328 English Literature: Later Eighteenth Century (5) VLPA
Classic age of English prose. Essays, biography, and criticism by Samuel Johnson, Oliver Goldsmith, and others; comedies by Goldsmith and Richard Brinsley Sheridan; fiction by Henry Fielding and others; poetry by a variety of writers.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 328

ENGL 329 Rise of the English Novel (5) VLPA
Study of the development of this major and popular modern literary form in the eighteenth century. Readings of the best of the novelists who founded the form, and some minor ones, from Defoe to Fielding, Richardson, and Sterne, early Austen, and the gothic and other writers.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 329

ENGL 330 English Literature: The Romantic Age (5) VLPA
Literary, intellectual, and historical ferment of the period from the French Revolution to the 1830s. Readings from major authors in different literary forms; discussions of critical and philosophical issues in a time of change.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 330

ENGL 331 Romantic Poetry I (5) VLPA
Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, and their contemporaries.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 331

ENGL 332 Romantic Poetry II (5) VLPA
Byron, Shelley, Keats, and their contemporaries.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 332

ENGL 333 English Novel: Early and Middle Nineteenth Century (5) VLPA
Studies in the novel in one of its classic phases. Authors include Austen, the Brontes, Dickens, Thackeray.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 333

ENGL 334 English Novel: Later Nineteenth Century (5) VLPA
Studies in the novel as it passes from a classic format to formats more experimental. Authors include George Eliot, Thomas Hardy, Joseph Conrad, and others.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 334

ENGL 335 English Literature: The Age of Victoria (5) VLPA
Literature in an era of revolution that also sought continuity, when culture faced redefinition as mass culture and found in the process new demands and creative energies, new material and forms, and transformations of old ones. Readings range from works of Tennyson, Browning, Arnold, Shaw, to Dickens, Eliot, Hardy.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 335

ENGL 336 English Literature: Early Twentieth Century (5) VLPA
Experiments in fiction and poetry. Novels by Joyce, Woolf, Lawrence, and others; poetry by Eliot and Yeats and others.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 336

ENGL 337 The Modern Novel (5) VLPA
The novel on both sides of the Atlantic in the first half of the twentieth century. Includes such writers as Joyce, Woolf, Lawrence, Stein, Hemingway, Faulkner, and others.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 337

ENGL 338 Modern Poetry (5) VLPA
Poetry in the modernist mode, including such poets as Yeats, Eliot, Pound, Auden, and Moore.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 338

ENGL 339 English Literature: Contemporary England (5) VLPA
Return to more traditional forms in such writers as Bowen, Orwell, Waugh, Cary, Lessing, Drabble.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 339

ENGL 340 Anglo-Irish Literature (5) VLPA
Principal writers in English of the modern Irish literary movement - Yeats, Joyce, Synge, Gregory, and O' Casey among them - with attention to traditions of Irish culture and history.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 340

ENGL 341 Studies in the Novel (5) VLPA
Explores the workings and evolution of the novel. Introduces the distinct styles and purposes of the novel, such as the romance, the roman-a-clef, realism, naturalism, modernism, and postmodernism.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 341

ENGL 342 Contemporary Novel (5) VLPA
Recent efforts to change the shape and direction of the novel by such writers as Murdoch, Barth, Hawkes, Fowles, and Atwood.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 342

ENGL 343 Contemporary Poetry (5) VLPA
Recent developments by such poets as Hughes, Heaney, Rich, Kinnell, and Hugo.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 343

ENGL 344 Studies in Drama (5) VLPA
Explores the workings and historical development of theatrical practices, including performance and spectatorship more broadly. Possible topics include genres of drama (tragedy, mystery play, melodrama, agitprop); histories of drama (Elizabethan theater, Theater of the Absurd, the Mbari Mbayo club, In-Your-Face Theater_; and theorists of performance and dramaturgy.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 344

ENGL 345 Studies in Film (5) VLPA
Types, techniques, and issues explored by filmmakers. Emphasis on narrative, image, and point of view.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 345

ENGL 346 Studies in Short Fiction (5) VLPA
The American and English short story, with attention to the influence of writers of other cultures. Aspects of the short story that distinguish it, in style and purpose, from longer fiction.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 346

ENGL 347 Studies in Non-Fiction Prose (5) VLPA
Explores the workings and evolution of non-fiction prose, Introduces the distinct styles and purposes on non-fiction prose such as autobiography, biography, personal essay, reflective and meditative writing, social and scientific inquiry, and persuasive writing.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 347

ENGL 348 Studies in Popular Culture (5) VLPA
Explores one or more popular genres (fantasy, romance, mystery) or media (comics, television, videogames), with attention to historical development, distinctive formal features, and reading protocols. May include study of audience, reception histories, or fan cultures.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 348

ENGL 349 Science Fiction and Fantasy (5) VLPA
The study of the development of and specific debates in the related genres of fantasy and science fiction literatures
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 349

ENGL 350 Traditions in American Fiction (5) VLPA
A literary form in which America has found its distinctively American expression. Selected readings among important novelists from the beginnings until 1900, including Cooper, Hawthorne, Melville, Twain, Chopin, James, and Wharton.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 350

ENGL 351 American Literature: The Colonial Period (5) VLPA
Responses to the New World and literary strategies in the literature of the colonies and the early republic. Works by Taylor, Edwards, Franklin, and others.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 351

ENGL 352 American Literature: The Early Nation (5) VLPA
Conflicting visions of the national destiny and the individual identity in the early years of America's nationhood. Works by Emerson, Thoreau, Hawthorne, Melville, and such other writers as Poe, Cooper, Irving, Whitman, Dickinson, and Douglass.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 352

ENGL 353 American Literature: Later Nineteenth Century (5) VLPA
Literary responses to an America propelled forward by accelerating and complex forces. Works by Twain, James, and such other writers as Whitman, Dickinson, Adams, Wharton, Howells, Crane, Dreiser, DuBois, and Chopin.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 353

ENGL 354 American Literature: Early Twentieth Century (5) VLPA
Investigates the period of American literary modernism (1900 to WW II). Topics include nationalism, migration, race, gender, and the impact of the visual arts on literary modernism, as well as the relation between modernity/modernization (social, economic, and technological transformation) and modernism (revolution in literary style).
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 354

ENGL 355 American Literature: Contemporary America (5) VLPA
Works by such writers as Ellison, Williams, O' Connor, Lowell, Barth, Rich, and Hawkes.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 355

ENGL 356 Classic American Poetry (5) VLPA
Poetry by Taylor, Whitman, Dickinson, and such others as Poe, Bradstreet, Crane, Robinson. The lineage and characteristics of lyric and epic in America.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 356

ENGL 357 Jewish American Literature and Culture (5) VLPA, DIV Butwin
Examines the literary and cultural production of American Jews from the colonial period to the present time. Considers ways in which American Jews assimilate and resist assimilation while Jewish writers, filmmakers, playwrights, and graphic novelists imitate and alter American life and literature. Offered: jointly with JSIS C 357; AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 357

ENGL 358 Literature of Black Americans (5) VLPA
Selected writings, novels, short stories, plays, poems by Afro-American writers. Study of the historical and cultural context within which they evolved. Differences between Afro-American writers and writers of the European-American tradition. Emphasis varies. Offered: jointly with AFRAM 358.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 358

ENGL 359 Contemporary American Indian Literature (5) VLPA, DIV
Creative writings (novels, short stories, poems) of contemporary Indian authors; the traditions out of which these works evolved. Differences between Indian writers and writers of the dominant European/American mainstream. Offered: jointly with AIS 377.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 359

ENGL 360 American Literature and Culture (5) VLPA/I&S
American literature and culture in its political and cultural context. Emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach to American literature and culture, including history, politics, anthropology, and mass media.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 360

ENGL 361 American Political Culture: After 1865 (5) VLPA/I&S
American literature in its political and cultural context from the Civil War to the present. Emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach to American literature, including history, politics, anthropology, and mass media.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 361

ENGL 362 U.S. Latino/a Literature (5) VLPA Kaup
Selected contemporary and historical works by U.S. Latino/a authors. Spans U. S. Latino/a literature from the nineteenth century to the present, tracing it genealogy from a foundational triad of communities - Mexican American, Puerto Rican, and Cuban American.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 362

ENGL 363 Literature and the Other Arts and Disciplines (5, max. 10) VLPA
Relationships between literature and other arts, such as painting, photography, architecture, and music, or between literature and other disciplines, such as science. Content varies.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 363

ENGL 364 Literature and Medicine (5) VLPA/I&S
How changing concepts of doctor-patient relationship and of body depicted in literary texts affect decisions throughout the human life cycle. Medicine and disease as metaphors for personal experience and social analysis.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 364

ENGL 365 Literature and Discourse on the Environment (5) VLPA Blake, Handwerk
Pays attention to verbal expression; forms and genres; and historical, cultural, and conceptual contexts of the natural environment. Focuses on sites, nations, and historical periods. Forms and genres include: nature writing, environmentalist discourses, the pastoral, the sublime, discourses of the city , fiction, poetry, nonfiction prose, dramatic forms, and religious texts. Offered: AWSpS.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 365

ENGL 366 Literature and Law (5) VLPA
Introduces and explores topics in law and literature, with a focus on the relationship between legal materials and literary or cultural imaginaries. Surveys debates in the field of law and literature or focuses on a specific problem, genre, or historical period.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 366

ENGL 367 Gender Studies in Literature (5, max. 15) VLPA, DIV
The study of contemporary approaches to analyzing the gender politics of literature and culture. Examines special topics in the history and development of the major theoretical trends, including the relationship of certain theories of gender to relevant works of literature.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 367

ENGL 368 Women Writers (5, max. 15) VLPA
Study of the work of women writers in English and American literature.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 368

ENGL 369 Research Methods in Language and Rhetoric (5) VLPA
Introduces research theories and methodological approaches in language and rhetoric. Methods and content focus vary by instructor and may include ethnography, corpus analysis, case study, discourse analysis, rhetorical criticism, and various other qualitative and quantitative research methods.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 369

ENGL 370 English Language Study (5) VLPA
Wide-range introduction to the study of written and spoken English. The nature of language; ways of describing language; the use of language study as an approach to English literature and the teaching of English.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 370

ENGL 371 English Syntax (5) VLPA
Description of sentence, phrase, and word structures in present-day English. Prerequisite: ENGL 370, LING 200 or LING 400.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 371

ENGL 372 World Englishes (5) VLPA
Examines emerging World/New Englishes, and variants of English employed as a second language in former colonies of the United Kingdom and United States. Explores issues of standardization and the standard in a global perspective. Prerequisite: ENGL 370, LING 200, or LING 400.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 372

ENGL 373 History of the English Language (5) VLPA
Evolution of English sounds, forms, structures, and word meanings from Anglo-Saxon times to the present. Prerequisite: either ENGL 370 or LING 200.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 373

ENGL 374 The Language of Literature (5) VLPA
Roles of explicitly describable language features in the understanding and appreciation of various verbal forms. Emphasis on literature, but attention also may be given to nonliterary prose and oral forms.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 374

ENGL 375 Rhetorical Genre Theory and Practice (5)
Explores the workings and evolution of rhetorical genres as they emerge from and shape recurring social situations. Focuses on the relationship between form and content, and how the typified rhetorical features and linguistic styles of genres are related to specific purposes, activities, relations, and identities.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 375

ENGL 376 Introduction to Middle English Language (5) VLPA Moore
Explores the language and culture of the Middle English period in England (1100-1500). Examines Middle English texts, the cultural importance of written material, the shifting roles of literacy in early England, the relationship to French and Latin, the regional dialects of English in the period, and manuscript culture. Offered: AWSp.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 376

ENGL 378 Special Topics in Theories/Methods (5, max. 15)
Introduces and explores a specific area of theory or method as it has influence the production, practice, or study of literature, language, and culture in English.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 378

ENGL 379 Special Topics in Forms/Genres/Media (5, max. 15)
Introduces and explores a specific area of form, genre, or media as it has influenced the production, practice, or study of literature, language, and culture in English.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 379

ENGL 380 Special Topics in Histories (5, max. 15)
Introduces and explores a specific area of history as it has influenced the production, practice, or study of literature, language, and culture in English.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 380

ENGL 381 Advanced Expository Writing (5) C
Concentration on the development of prose style for experienced writers.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 381

ENGL 382 Writing for the Web (5, max. 10) C
Writing substantial web essays on topics of current concern, Extensive analysis and criticism of on-line essays. Prerequisite: ENGL 282.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 382

ENGL 383 The Craft of Verse (5) VLPA
Intensive study of various aspects of the craft verse. Readings in contemporary verse and writing using emulation and imitation. Prerequisite: ENGL 283; ENGL 284.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 383

ENGL 384 The Craft of Prose (5) VLPA
Intensive study of various aspects of the craft of fiction or creative nonfiction. Readings in contemporary prose and writing using emulation and imitation. Prerequisite: ENGL 283; ENGL 284.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 384

ENGL 385 Modernism/Modernity (5)
Introduces and explores the genealogy, character, and consequences of the modern for textual production and reception. Addresses competing conceptions of modernism and periodizations of modernity, including: preoccupations with novelty/the new; narratives of historical development; temporality; constructions of high and low culture; intersections between aesthetics and politics; and transnationalism.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 385

ENGL 395 Study Abroad (1-5, max. 30) VLPA
Relates major works of literature, literary theory and criticism, or creative writing to the landscape and activities of their settings for students in UW English Department study abroad programs. Equivalency for upper-division English coursework taken on a UW study abroad program or direct exchange.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 395

ENGL 407 Special Topics in Cultural Studies (5) VLPA
Advanced work in cultural studies.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 407

ENGL 411 Introduction to the Folktale Among Literate Peoples (3) VLPA
Techniques of classification, geographic-historical distribution, theories of origin and interpretations, and related areas of investigation of the oral prose folk narrative of literate peoples.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 411

ENGL 422 Arthurian Legends (5) VLPA
Medieval romance in its cultural and historical setting, with concentration on the evolution of Arthurian romance.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 422

ENGL 430 British Writers: Studies in Major Authors (5, max. 15) VLPA
Concentration on one writer or a special group of British writers.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 430

ENGL 431 Topics in British Literature (5, max. 15) VLPA
Themes and topics of special meaning to British literature.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 431

ENGL 440 Special Studies in Literature (3/5, max. 10) VLPA
Themes and topics offering special approaches to literature.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 440

ENGL 442 The Novel: Special Studies (5, max. 10) VLPA
Readings may be English or American and drawn from different periods, or they may concentrate on different types - gothic, experimental, novel of consciousness, realistic novel. Special attention to the novel as a distinct literary form. Specific topic varies from quarter to quarter.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 442

ENGL 443 Poetry: Special Studies (5, max. 10) VLPA
A poetic tradition or group of poems connected by subject matter or poetic technique. Specific topics vary, but might include poetry as a geography of mind, the development of the love lyric, the comic poem.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 443

ENGL 444 Dramatic Literature: Special Studies (5, max. 10) VLPA
Study of a particular dramatic tradition (such as expressionism or the absurd theatre) or character (the clown) or technique (play-within-a-play, the neoclassical three unities). Topics vary.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 444

ENGL 451 American Writers: Studies in Major Authors (5, max. 15) VLPA
Concentration on one writer or a special group of American writers.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 451

ENGL 452 Topics in American Literature (5, max. 15) VLPA
Exploration of a theme or special topic in American literary expression.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 452

ENGL 453 Introduction to American Folklore (5) VLPA
Study of different kinds of folklore inherited from America's past and to be found in America today.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 453

ENGL 457 Pacific Northwest Literature (5) VLPA
Concentrates in alternate years on either prose or poetry of the Pacific Northwest. Prose works examine early exploration, conflicts of native and settlement cultures, various social and economic conflicts. Pacific Northwest poetry includes consideration of its sources, formative influences, and emergence into national prominence.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 457

ENGL 466 Gay and Lesbian Studies (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV
Examination of ways gays and lesbians are represented in literature, film, performance, and popular culture and how these representations are interpreted in mainstream, gay/lesbian, and academic writing.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 466

ENGL 470 Theory and Practice of Teaching Literature (5, max. 10) VLPA
Reviews the institutional history of English as an academic discipline and the core debates and politics that have shaped the content, teaching, and study of literature and literacy theory. Introduces some theoretical and methodological approaches that inform the teaching of literature.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 470

ENGL 471 Theory and Practice of Teaching Writing (5) VLPA
Reviews the research, core debates, and politics that have shaped the practice, teaching and study of writing. Introduces theoretical and methodological approaches that inform the teaching and learning of writing.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 471

ENGL 472 Language Learning (5) VLPA
Consideration of how an individual achieves psychological and esthetic grasp of reality through language; relates language development to reading skills, literary interpretation, grammar acquisition, oral fluency, discursive and imaginative writing.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 472

ENGL 473 Current Developments in English Studies: Conference (5) VLPA
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 473

ENGL 474 Special Topics in English for Teachers (1-10, max. 10) VLPA
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 474

ENGL 475 Colloquium in English for Teachers (1-5, max. 10) VLPA
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 475

ENGL 476 Puget Sound Writing Program Institute (10) VLPA
Focus on the writing process and the teaching of writing, accomplished through research, writing, reflection, and demonstration of writing instruction. Affiliated with the National Writing Project.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 476

ENGL 477 Children's Literature (5) VLPA
An examination of books that form a part of the imaginative experience of children, as well as a part of a larger literary heritage, viewed in the light of their social, psychological, political, and moral implications.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 477

ENGL 478 Language and Social Policy (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV
Examines the relationship between language policy and social organization; the impact of language policy on immigration, education, and access to resources and political institutions; language policy and revolutionary change; language rights.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 478

ENGL 479 Language Variation and Language Policy in North America (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV
Surveys basic issues of language variation: phonological, syntactic, semantic, and narrative/discourse differences among speech communities of North American English; examines how language policy can affect access to education, the labor force, and political institutions.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 479

ENGL 481 Special Studies in Expository Writing (5) VLPA
Individual projects in various types of nonfictional prose, such as biographical sketches, informational reports, literary reviews, and essays.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 481

ENGL 483 Advanced Verse Workshop (5, max. 10) VLPA
Intensive verse workshop. Emphasis on the production and discussion of student poetry. Prerequisite: ENGL 383; ENGL 384.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 483

ENGL 484 Advanced Prose Workshop (5, max. 10) VLPA
Intensive prose workshop. Emphasis on the production and discussion of student fiction and/or creative nonfiction. Prerequisite: ENGL 383; ENGL 384.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 484

ENGL 485 Novel Writing (5, max. 15) VLPA
Experience in planning, writing, and revising a work of long fiction, whether from the outset, in progress, or in already completed draft. Prerequisite: ENGL 384.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 485

ENGL 486 Playwriting (5, max. 10) VLPA
Experience in planning, writing, and revising a play, whether from the outset, in progress, or in already completed draft.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 486

ENGL 487 Screenwriting (5) VLPA
Students read screenwriting manuals and screenplays, analyze exemplary films, and write synopses, treatments, and first acts of their own screenplays.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 487

ENGL 491 Internship (1-6, max. 12)
Supervised experience in local businesses and other agencies. Open only to upper-division English majors. Credit/no-credit only.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 491

ENGL 492 Advanced Expository Writing Conference (1-5, max. 10)
Tutorial arranged by prior mutual agreement between individual student and instructor. Revision of manuscripts is emphasized, but new work may also be undertaken.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 492

ENGL 493 Advanced Creative Writing Conference (1-5, max. 10)
Tutorial arranged by prior mutual agreement between individual student and instructor. Revision of manuscripts is emphasized, but new work may also be undertaken.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 493

ENGL 494 Honors Seminar (5, max. 10) VLPA
Survey of current issues confronting literary critics today, based on revolving themes and topics. Focuses on debates and developments affecting English language and literatures, including questions about: the relationship of culture and history; the effect of emergent technologies on literary study; the rise of interdisciplinary approaches in the humanities.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 494

ENGL 495 Major Conference for Honors in Creative Writing (5)
Special projects available to Honors students in creative writing. Required of, and limited to, Honors students in creative writing.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 495

ENGL 496 Major Conference for Honors (5)
Individual study (reading, papers) by arrangement with the instructor. Required of, and limited to, Honors seniors in English.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 496

ENGL 497 Honors Senior Seminar (5) VLPA
Seminar study of special topics in language and literary study. Limited to Honors students majoring in English.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 497

ENGL 498 Senior Seminar (5) VLPA
Seminar study of special topics in language and literary study. Limited to seniors majoring in English.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 498

ENGL 499 Independent Study (1-5, max. 10)
Individual study by arrangement with instructor.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 499

ENGL 501 Textual Theory (5)
Provides an introduction to the intellectual foundations of textual studies; historical background in disciplines of philosophy and textual criticism, theories of textuality from formalism and New Criticism to poststructuralism, and media-specific analysis; current and emerging concerns in the history of the book, media studies, globally comparative philologies, and digital humanities. Offered: jointly with C LIT 551.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 501

ENGL 502 Manuscript Studies (5)
An examination of the theoretical and methodological issues attending the study of written texts including literacy, circulation, production, and reception in Premodern genetics, and archival research methods. Offered: jointly with C LIT 552.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 502

ENGL 503 Studies in Print Culture and Publication (5)
An examination of the theoretical and methodological issues attending the study of printed texts; training in bibliography and the history of the book from Gutenberg's hand press to the machine and periodical presses of the nineteen and twentieth centuries; and contemporary book art. Offered: jointly with C LIT 553.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 503

ENGL 504 Digital Literary and Textual Studies (5)
An examination of digital textuality from the rise and fall of "hypertext" to contemporary convergence and transmediation in hybrid visual-verbal genres; computer games, digital video, and e-poetry. Coverage of practical issues surrounding digital scholarship and the digital humanities. Offered: jointly with C LIT 554.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 504

ENGL 505 Theories of American Literature (5)
Examination of selected texts in American Literature, concentrating on the specific problems of interpretation and scholarship characteristic of the study of works in this field.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 505

ENGL 506 Modern and Contemporary Critical Theory (5)
Engages ongoing critical conversations that inform English studies, including: language, textual production, disciplinarity, the university, capital, nation formation, postcolonialism, the environment, race, gender, class, and sexuality. The historical focus is contemporary, with attention to foundational modern theorists.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 506

ENGL 507 History of Literary Criticism and Theory I (5, max. 15)
A general introduction to the major issues in the history of criticism followed by the study of the classical theorists, including Plato, Aristotle, Longinus, and the major medieval critics. Offered: jointly with C LIT 507.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 507

ENGL 508 History of Literary Criticism and Theory II (5, max. 15)
Literary criticism and theory from the Middle Ages and the Renaissance through the eighteenth century to, but not including, Kant. Offered: jointly with C LIT 508.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 508

ENGL 509 History of Literary Criticism and Theory III (5, max. 15)
Literary criticism and theory from Kant's Critique of Judgment to the mid-twentieth century and the work of Northrop Frye. Offered: jointly with C LIT 509.
View course details in MyPlan: ENGL 509

ENGL 510 History of Literary Criticism and Theory IV (5, max. 15)
A study of the major issues in literary criticism and theory since about 1965. Offered: jointly with C LIT 510